##### CFAA

The Computer Fraud and Abuse Act (CFAA) was enacted by Congress in 1986 as a
method of clarifying some additional provisions provided in existing computer
[fraud law](https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/18/1030) as well as
criminalizing several additional computer related attacks.

The act has been amended a number of times including in the USA PATRIOT Act of
2001, in 2008 by the Identity Theft Enforcement and Restitution Act, and is
currently undergoing an expansion which was proposed in 2015 by President Barack
Obama.[citations links]

The CFAA focuses on criminalizing anyone who obtains information from a computer
which is considered _”protected”_.

The idea of having legislation which safeguards _“protected”_ computers isn’t
bad. We all value our privacy and sensitive information, and it is reasonable to
expect laws that extend onward into the digital age to make sure that happens.

The malicious use of the CFAA isn’t just limited to federal cases. Most notably
is **Sony Computer Entertainment America v. George Hotz** where Sony sued Hotz
for creating and posting a method of “jail breaking” a PlayStation 3 console.
This would allow users to access device capabilities (of the device that they
bought) which were normally restricted through Sony’s software.

Over the course of this case, Sony employed it’s own methods of tracking Hotz
and other defendants who accessed their website to find out where they live and
sue them in their home state.

Yet the law’s vast scope and indiscriminate use within civil courts has shown
that it is not only overly broad, but far too harsh for the "crimes" which were
committed.

The question isn’t whether what Swartz and James did was wrong or if they should
have been held accountable by the law. The question is whether a case of
civil disobedience should be served with 50 years in jail and over a million
dollars in bail. It’s about how a child’s unmonitored exploration should be met
with jail time and removing a tool essential for modern life.

##### The CFAA and Aaron Swartz

<iframe
src='http://cdn.knightlab.com/libs/timeline/latest/embed/index.html?source=0AoAHS44Q2yundFFtQlNEVHp1TGpuQmNSUHd5cVNJd0E&font=Bevan-PotanoSans&maptype=toner&lang=en&height=650'
width='100%' height='650' frameborder='0'></iframe>
