Abhay doesn’t ever really plan on using his go bag. He keeps it as a fail safe,
the same as when he is backing up computer systems. However, its very existence
shows how software developers are conditioned to fear the merciless application
of the law.

When creating applications for a computer, programmers use a multitude of tools
and methods which have been invented by those who came before us. We all stand
on the shoulders of giants to create the software that we do today. Many of
those who write software do it out of a sense of wonder that comes from finding
or creating something new. When legislation is passed that seeks to punish
crimes such as posting documents on the internet with punishments that rival
those of murder, it becomes easy for software developers to view themselves as
criminals. It’s cases like Aaron Swartz, who was being tried for up to 35 years
in prison for downloading a large amount of files that send a clear message to
any who understand software security that they are the enemy. It’s cases such as
Deric Lostutter who exposed proof in the Steubenville rape case and was handed a
sentence which was [five times the length](http://thinkprogress.org/health/2013/06/07/2119171/anonymous-hacker-steubenville-jail/)
of the football players who were convicted of raping an unconscious teenager.

The lines between exploring and breaking the law are blurring just as
they do between symptoms and sickness for a med student.

Despite this, the software community is one that is strong and determined. For
many, the risk of prosecution does not outweigh the benefit of learning and
exploring. Even now, many still use the term “hacker” in an endearing sense,
meaning someone who can “hack together” creative solutions. In the face of a
media which paints them as criminals and terrorists, they still seek to convince
the world otherwise.
