# Fear Culture in Software

Satish Abhay is a student. He studies Computer Security at a leading college and
in his spare time spends time with his friends attending a number of clubs and
organizations around his school.

Abhay also keeps what is called a “go bag”. It’s a medium sized duffel bag which
contains several days worth of clothes, his passport, and a few hundred dollars
in cash. It’s meant to act as a quick storage of all of your bare necessities if
anything were to happen where you had to get up and leave in a moments notice.

Abhay has never committed any serious crime. He was raised by a fairly well off
family with no criminal past. He doesn’t belong to any terrorist organizations
and doesn’t ever plan on doing so.

So why would someone who doesn’t have any plans on ever committing a crime which
he would have to drop his whole life and run away with nothing but a few change
of clothes, some cash, and his passport? Does he think that one day he will
somehow snap and start committing crimes?

Maybe.

Med Student's syndrome is a condition frequently reported in medical students
who perceive themselves to be experiencing the symptoms of the disease which
they are studying. This happens because the student so frequently surrounds
themselves with deadly conditions that they become hyper aware of the senses
which relate to those symptoms.

It’s this relentless subjection to the possibility disease  that breeds this
bizarre kind of paranoia. To the ordinary person, this may seem unordinary but
within med schools it is fairly common.

The modern day perception of hackers shows them as criminals. From everything
such as the fantasized movies about hackers causing nuclear reactors to overheat
and explode, to our own president alluding the possibility of hackers some how
attacking our children, we are constantly subject to the possibility of stepping
over the boundary into what makes a criminal.

It’s this boundary, be it the one that separates symptoms from sickness, or
curiosity from criminality that defines this syndrome.
