###### Aaron Swartz

Aaron Swartz is a significant individual in the computing community. Co-founding
sites such as [reddit.com](https://reddit.com), and developing the RSS 1.0 spec,
he has published widely cited papers such as his landmark analysis of Wikipedia
[_”Who Writes Wikipedia”_](http://www.aaronsw.com/weblog/whowriteswikipedia).
Most notably he founded the organization [Demand
Progress](https://demandprogress.org/) which spearheaded efforts against
SOPA/PIPA.

Swartz was first noticed by federal law enforcement agencies for downloading and
releasing about 2.7 million _public_ federal court documents stored in PACER.
Although the court which housed the terminals that could be used to access the
documents knew of serious security vulnerabilities (one of which, was exploited
by Swartz to download the documents), an FBI investigation still ensued.
Fortunately the investigation didn’t go anywhere since the documents “leaked”
were in-fact, public.

Still, this ended up putting Swartz on the radar of many powerful and
influential organizations. Swartz was later caught downloading a large number of
academic papers from JSTOR online, obtained from his own account provided to him
by being on campus at MIT, even though he was a research fellow at Harvard
university.

On the night of January 6, 2011, Swartz was arrested near the Harvard campus by
MIT police and a U.S. Secret Service agent. What followed was a string of court
cases accusing him of everything from breaking and entering to grand larceny.
[citation needed, exact accounts]

On September 12, 2012, federal prosecutors filed a superseding indictment adding
nine more felony counts, which increased Swartz's maximum criminal exposure to
50 years of imprisonment and $1 million in fines.

Swartz committed suicide on January 11, 2013.

###### Jonathan James

Jonathan James is the first juvenile who was incarcerated for cybercrime. James
installed a backdoor in a server in Dulles, Virginia which would sniff packets
passing to and from DTRA (Defence Threat Reduction Agency) employees.

James house was raided on the evening of January 26, 2000 by agents of the DoD,
NASA, and the Pinecrest Police Dept. He was sentenced to 6 months of house
arrest and probation until the age of 18. He was 16 years old on the date of his
sentencing.

James was banned from using computers for recreational purposes. While this may
seem like a small price to pay, for a child to be so fascinated with a subject
that they can intercept packets from an agency and download the source code for
the software which runs the international space station, this sentence is
devastating.

Both Attorney General Janet Reno and prosecuting attorney Guy Lewis issued
statements claiming the James case was proof the Justice Department was willing
to get tough with juvenile offenders accused of cybercrime.

After a series of massive computer systems intrusions performed by a ring of
hackers, the secret service began investigating James, looking for any
connection to the crimes. Though James denied having any connection, the secret
service raided both his brother’s and girlfriend’s houses.

Although they apparently discovered no connection to the intrusion, they did
discover a legally registered firearm, which they did not take, and notes
indicating he had considered killing himself; James' father would later say that
his son had been prone to depression.

On May 18, 2008, Jonathan James was found dead in his shower with a
self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head.
