# Fear Culture in Software

Satish Abhay is a student. He studies Computer Security at a leading college and
in his spare time attends a number of clubs and organizations around his school
with friends.

Abhay also keeps what is called a “go bag”. It’s a medium sized duffel bag which
contains several days worth of clothes, his passport, and a few hundred dollars
in cash. It’s meant to act as a quick storage of all of his bare necessities if
anything were to happen where he had to get up and leave in a moments notice.

Abhay has never committed any serious crime. He was raised by a fairly well off
family with no criminal past. He doesn’t belong to any terrorist organization
and has no desire to do so.

So why would someone who doesn’t have any plans on ever committing a crime live
in an environment of duress, ready to drop his whole life and run away with
nothing but a few changes of clothes, some cash, and his passport? Does he think
that one day he will somehow snap and start committing crimes?

Maybe.

Med Student's syndrome is a condition frequently reported in medical students
who perceive themselves to be experiencing the symptoms of the disease which
they are studying. Because the student surrounds themselves with deadly
conditions so frequently, they become hyper aware of the senses which relate to
those symptoms.

It’s this relentless subjection to the possibility of disease that breeds this
bizarre kind of paranoia. To the ordinary person, this may seem irrational but
within med schools it is fairly common.

The modern day perception of hackers shows them as criminals. From everything
such as the fantasized movies about hackers causing nuclear meltdowns, to our
own president alluding to the dangerous threat that hackers post to our
children. Programmers are constantly tip-toeing the line between a celebrated
hero who is ushering in a digital age and a terrorist with very little
distinction for what separates them.

It is this boundary, be it the one that separates symptoms from sickness, or
curiosity from criminality that defines this syndrome.
